Hold on to the handlebar so you don’t roll away.
That’s it.
Now you just step on while keeping your balance.
Ok. And then you said to drive left.
Exactly.
Did I mention that I have a terrible sense of balance?
I’ve been living in Berlin for 10 years,
but this is my first time on Tempelhof Field.
And I have to say it is cool when the sun is shining.
Whether you need it is a different question.
We have a family office in Berlin.
We invest in real estate, mainly apartments,
and advise foreign investors
on their property purchases here.
They’re all very interested in the Berlin market
because they see a shortage and rents have risen enormously.
Why did they rise? Not because people are buying property here,
but because there isn’t enough housing.
That’s the main problem for people in Berlin,
even with good jobs they can’t find a place to live.
And if you’re not earning much or you’re unemployed,
it’s even harder.
So we need more housing in Berlin.
It is really great here, it’s not how I imagined Tempelhof Field.
But it’s also great when you have a place to live.
I read that if everything was built on,
you could have 25.000 flats here.
We probably need 200.000 flats in Berlin,
so I would build on most of it:
Even if you only built on 6/7,
you'd still have open space as big as the Theresienwiese in Munich.
That’s where Octoberfest happens every year.
That would be awesome as well: Octoberfest in Berlin,
just in June so it doesn’t collide with the one in Munich.
Would be lots of fun,
would bring in lots of money for the city.
But doing nothing is not a good option.
This is meant to be a nature reserve, it’s a joke.
I found a quote by anthropologist Friedrich Naumann from 1897:
“There is no greater contrast than coming onto Tempelhof Field from Berlin.
It is a steppe in the middle of civilisation
where steppe life develops as soon as the sun comes out.
Nowhere in Germany is there a similar spectacle.
Countless women and children emigrate from the stone streets
to lie on the steppe.
They take everything, prams, bedding, field chairs, balls and spades.
On the steppe the city children experience freedom.
They have the vast sky above them and a vast space around them.
On fine days, there are thousands sitting on the ground
between Rixdorf and Schöneberg.”
1897.
What does vastness mean to you?
Waste, luxury.
It’s nice to sit here on a sunny Sunday,
but the housing shortage has become even more acute in the last 5 years.
If you consider the problems then it’s irrelevant
whether there is a vastness here that you can relax in.
There are lots of other ways to relax.
Can you give me an example of how things work with foreign investors?
They are people who want to invest their money in a save haven
such as Germany.
And they have heard that there’s money to be made in Berlin real estate,
that there’s demand, that there’s a shortage of living space which leads to rising prices.
We live in Europe.
Why should someone from abroad not buy a house here?
It’s an endorsement of the city as well.
But people demonise speculators who just want to buy a house and then sell it again...
I don’t see that so negatively.
Who does Berlin belong to?
For affordable rents - Save our city
Solidarity against rent sharks
Lower rents for more diversity
The fact that small neighbourhood shops can no longer afford rents
has nothing to do with rent costs.
Why shouldn’t I build hotels? We need tourists in Berlin.
Does it impact rents if I build a hotel in Kreuzberg?
I don’t think so.